Rules
Each player owns 8 animal pieces representing different animals of various ranks, and higher 
ranked animals can capture the animals of lower or equal rank. But there is a special case that 
eleplant cannot capture the rat while the rat can capture the eleplant.

Each player moves alternatively, and all pieces can move one square horizontally or 
vertically, but not diagonally. As shown in the table, there are some special movements for 
lion, tiger and rat. These will be explained in detail:

 Entering the river: 
 The rat is the only animal that may go onto a water square. After entering the river, the rat cannot be captured by any piece on land. Also, the rat in river cannot capture the eleplant on the land.

 Jumping across the river: 
 The lion and tiger can jump over a river vertically or horizonally. They jump from a 
square on one edge of the river to the next non-water square on the other side. If that square contains an enemy piece of equal or lower rank, the lion or tiger 
capture it as part of their jump. However, a jumping move is blocked (not permitted) if a rat of either color 
currently occupies any of the intervening water squares.

Jungle game has an interesting chessboard with differerent terrains including dens, traps and 
rivers. After the initialization, the pieces start on squares with pictures corresponding to their 
animals, which are invariably shown on the Jungle board
The three kinds of special terrains are explained as:

Dens: It is not allowed that the piece enters its own den. If the player's pieces enter 
the dens of his/her opponent, then the player wins,.
Trap: If a piece entering the opponents's trap, then its rank is reduced into 0 
temporarily before exiting. The trapped piece could be captured by any pieces of the 
defensing side.
River: They are located in the center of the chessboard, each comprising 6 squares in a 
2×3 rectangle. Only rats could enter the river, and lions and tigers could jump across the 
river.
1. Game Initialization: At the beginning, all 16 pieces are put into the chessboard as the initial 
state. The initial state is shown in Figure 6.
2. Game Progress: The player with blue moves first. Two players take the turn alternatively until 
the game is finished. When a player takes turn, he/she can select one of his pieces and do 
one of the following:
Moving one square horizontally or vertically. For lion, tiger and rat, they also have special 
movements related to the river squares, which have been introduced previously.
Capturing an opposing piece. In all captures, the captured pieces is removed from the board 
and the square is occupied by the capturing piece. A piece can capture any enemy piece 
following the rules introduced in "Pieces".
3. Game Termination: A player loses the game if one of the following happens:
The den is entered by his/her opponents.
All of his/her pieces are captured and he/her is unable to do any movement